README.md, before:

# Linphone Flutter Plugin

[![linkedin](https://img.shields.io/badge/LinkedIn-0077B5?style=for-the-badge&logo=linkedin&logoColor=white)](https://www.linkedin.com/in/mdaniyalnoor)


**Linphone Flutter Plugin** is a Flutter plugin that allows you to integrate Linphone SDK's native Android calling functionalities into your Flutter application. This plugin is designed for VOIP calling using the UDP protocol, making it ideal for real-time voice communication in your app.

## Features

- **Native Android Integration**: Utilize the power of Linphone SDK for seamless VOIP calling.
- **UDP Protocol Support**: Ensures fast and efficient communication with minimal latency.
- **Call Handling**: Initiate, receive, and manage VOIP calls directly from your Flutter app.
- **Call Logs**: Retrieve call history for tracking and analysis.
- **Mute, Speaker, and Call Transfer**: Control the call state with advanced features.

## Installation

To use this plugin, add `linphone_flutter_plugin` as a dependency in your `pubspec.yaml` file:

- Run this command:
```yaml
 $ dart pub add linphone_flutter_plugin
```

## Usage
- Import the plugin
```dart
import 'package:linphone_flutter_plugin/linphoneflutterplugin.dart';
```
## Android Permissions
- Add permission in AndroidManifest.xml

```xml
<manifest...>
    <uses-permission android:name="android.permission.INTERNET" />
    <uses-permission android:name="android.permission.RECORD_AUDIO" />
    <uses-permission android:name="android.permission.CALL_PHONE" />
    <uses-permission android:name="android.permission.CAMERA" />
    <uses-permission android:name="android.permission.SYSTEM_CAMERA" />
    <uses-permission android:name="android.permission.FOREGROUND_SERVICE_CAMERA" />
    <uses-permission android:name="android.permission.FOREGROUND_SERVICE_PHONE_CALL" />
    <uses-permission android:name="android.permission.MANAGE_OWN_CALLS" />
    <uses-permission android:name="android.permission.FOREGROUND_SERVICE_MICROPHONE" />
    <uses-permission android:name="android.permission.FOREGROUND_SERVICE" />
</manifest>
```


### Initialize the Plugin
- Before you can make or receive calls, you need to initialize the Linphone plugin and request the necessary permissions.
```dart
final _linphoneSdkPlugin = LinphoneFlutterPlugin();

Future<void> initLinphone() async {
  await _linphoneSdkPlugin.requestPermissions();
}
```
### Login
- To start using Linphone, you need to log in with your SIP credentials.

```dart
Future<void> login({
  required String username,
  required String password,
  required String domain,
}) async {
  await _linphoneSdkPlugin.login(userName: username, domain: domain, password: password);
}
```

### Make a Call
- Initiate a call by specifying the recipient’s number.
```dart
Future<void> call(String number) async {
  await _linphoneSdkPlugin.call(number: number);
}
```
### Receive a Call
- You can listen for incoming calls and handle them accordingly.
```dart
_linphoneSdkPlugin.addCallStateListener().listen((CallState state) {
  if (state == CallState.IncomingReceived) {
    // Handle incoming call
  }
});
```

### Hang Up
- End an ongoing call.
```dart
Future<void> hangUp() async {
  await _linphoneSdkPlugin.hangUp();
}
```

## Example

Check out the [example](https://github.com/MuhammadDaniyal32/Linphone-Flutter-Plugin/tree/main/example) directory for a complete example of how to use this plugin.

## Contributing

Contributions are welcome! Please submit issues and pull requests to help improve the plugin.

## License
This project is licensed under the MIT License. See the LICENSE file for details.# androiSip

Commit message:

feat: Implement SIP registration screen with service management and permission handling
- Added SipRegistrationScreen for user input of SIP credentials.
- Integrated Linphone SDK for SIP service management.
- Implemented credential loading and saving using SharedPreferences.
- Added permission handling for notifications and overlays.
- Created UI with status indicators and action buttons for starting/stopping the service.
- Included snack bar notifications for user feedback.
- Updated pubspec.yaml and pubspec.lock for new dependencies.

README.md, after:

# HATIF - Linphone Flutter Plugin

[![linkedin](https://img.shields.io/badge/LinkedIn-0077B5?style=for-the-badge&logo=linkedin&logoColor=white)](https://www.linkedin.com/in/mdaniyalnoor)

**HATIF** is a professional VoIP calling application powered by the Linphone Flutter Plugin. This plugin integrates Linphone SDK's native Android calling functionalities into Flutter applications, designed for enterprise-grade VOIP communication using the UDP protocol for real-time voice calls.

## Features

- **Native Android Integration**: Utilize the power of Linphone SDK for seamless VOIP calling.
- **UDP Protocol Support**: Ensures fast and efficient communication with minimal latency.
- **Call Handling**: Initiate, receive, and manage VOIP calls directly from your Flutter app.
- **Call Logs**: Retrieve call history for tracking and analysis.
- **Mute, Speaker, and Call Transfer**: Control the call state with advanced features.
- **Professional UI**: Modern call interface with DTMF support and call controls.

## Installation

To use this plugin, add `linphone_flutter_plugin` as a dependency in your `pubspec.yaml` file:

- Run this command:

```yaml
$ dart pub add linphone_flutter_plugin
```

## Usage

- Import the plugin

```dart
import 'package:linphone_flutter_plugin/linphoneflutterplugin.dart';
```

## Android Permissions

- Add permission in AndroidManifest.xml

```xml
<manifest...>
    <uses-permission android:name="android.permission.INTERNET" />
    <uses-permission android:name="android.permission.RECORD_AUDIO" />
    <uses-permission android:name="android.permission.CALL_PHONE" />
    <uses-permission android:name="android.permission.CAMERA" />
    <uses-permission android:name="android.permission.SYSTEM_CAMERA" />
    <uses-permission android:name="android.permission.FOREGROUND_SERVICE_CAMERA" />
    <uses-permission android:name="android.permission.FOREGROUND_SERVICE_PHONE_CALL" />
    <uses-permission android:name="android.permission.MANAGE_OWN_CALLS" />
    <uses-permission android:name="android.permission.FOREGROUND_SERVICE_MICROPHONE" />
    <uses-permission android:name="android.permission.FOREGROUND_SERVICE" />
</manifest>
```

### Initialize the Plugin

- Before you can make or receive calls, you need to initialize the Linphone plugin and request the necessary permissions.

```dart
final _linphoneSdkPlugin = LinphoneFlutterPlugin();

Future<void> initLinphone() async {
  await _linphoneSdkPlugin.requestPermissions();
}
```

### Login

- To start using Linphone, you need to log in with your SIP credentials.

```dart
Future<void> login({
  required String username,
  required String password,
  required String domain,
}) async {
  await _linphoneSdkPlugin.login(userName: username, domain: domain, password: password);
}
```

### Make a Call

- Initiate a call by specifying the recipient’s number.

```dart
Future<void> call(String number) async {
  await _linphoneSdkPlugin.call(number: number);
}
```

### Receive a Call

- You can listen for incoming calls and handle them accordingly.

```dart
_linphoneSdkPlugin.addCallStateListener().listen((CallState state) {
  if (state == CallState.IncomingReceived) {
    // Handle incoming call
  }
});
```

### Hang Up

- End an ongoing call.

```dart
Future<void> hangUp() async {
  await _linphoneSdkPlugin.hangUp();
}
```

## Example

Check out the [example](https://github.com/MuhammadDaniyal32/Linphone-Flutter-Plugin/tree/main/example) directory for a complete example of how to use this plugin.

## Contributing

Contributions are welcome! Please submit issues and pull requests to help improve the plugin.

## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License. See the LICENSE file for details.# androiSip
